# Behavioral-Data-Analysis
IN PROGRESS: I am hoping to use this respository to experiment with concepts in behavioral science and data analytics, paying specific attention to predictive analysis, causal analysis, concepts of construct validity and measurement as it applies to behavior. One dataset I am starting with, accessible [here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/468/online+shoppers+purchasing+intention+dataset). This article was used in previous research attempting to construct measurement of buyer intention (Sakar, Polat, Katircioglu, & Kastrom, 2019). That being said, with a background in behavior analysis, and a growing background in behavioral data analysis, i'm interested in applying some scrunity to this type of approch. Buisson (2021) highlights some critical guidelines behavioral data analysts often apply to behavioral leaning data. Some key topics they review, especially as it relates to this dataset, is the scrutiny one has to take with defining behavior and it's causes. 

In defining behavior, for example, the author champions a behavioral data analytic approach to consider the observable, individual, and atomic dimensions of behavior (Buisson, 2021). In otherwords, looking to get a clear, individualized, and isolated view of behavior in it's true state. This, in part, pertains to adherence to construct validity in defining and measuring behavior, to ensure our statements about a behavior truly reflect the occurrence of that behavior, and not some aggregate/ indirect variable. The latter risks including _confounds_. For example, if looking at aggregated behavioral data, withouth considering the unique dimensions of each behavior in the aggregate, conclusions might be stated about the nature of one behavior assuming it applies to all topographies in the aggregate. This is a risky practice, from a behavioral lense, where the individual circumstances and their differences across topographies of behavior are behaviorally _meaningful_. As such, they need to be handled with care to avoid confounds.

Buisson (2021) goes on to review the measurement and assumption of causal influence of _intentions_ in data analytic practice. In so doing, they bring up some valid arguments in the field of Psychology and Behaviorism, treding caution on assuming the role, function, and measurement of these concepts. All too often, data analysts will build their own measure, independent from the practice of psychology, or using psychological measures, stating their approach accurately reflects intentions. I encourage those without a behavioral background to review the work by Buisson (2021) for an in depth review of these errors. Simply put, _inner states_, cognitions, and emotions have been a historically debated topic in Psychology. It was the event of Behaviorism, which, at one point, proposed a controversal approach to understanding behavior in the absence of assuming inner states (Skinner, 1965). This was partly because changes in behavior could be systematically replicated by changes in the environment, withouth relying on these measures. Of course, we've come a long way since the emergence of behaviorism, while at the same time staying humble in our approach and assumptions of how inner states and behavior are related (Buisson, 2021). My goal, then, is to re-evaluate this dataset, to see if defining in terms of _behavioral probability_ rather than _intention to purchase_ changes the outcome of the analysis. This lens will change the cleaning, and EDA process, while exploring the same/ different algorithms to analyize the resulting dataset. 


## References

Buisson, F. (2021). Behavioral data analysis with R and Python. O'Reilly Media, Inc.

Skinner, B. F. (1965). Science and human behavior (No. 92904). Simon and Schuster.

Sakar, C. O., Polat, S. O., Katircioglu, M., & Kastro, Y. (2019). Real-time prediction of online shoppers’ purchasing intention using multilayer perceptron and LSTM recurrent neural networks. Neural Computing and Applications, 31(10), 6893-6908.

Alavosius, M., & Mattaini, M. A. (2011). Behavior analysis, sustainability, resilience, and adaptation. Behavior & Social Issues, 20(1).

Osbaldiston, R., & Schott, J. P. (2012). Environmental sustainability and behavioral science: Meta-analysis of proenvironmental behavior experiments. Environment and behavior, 44(2), 257-299.

Coskun, A., Zimmerman, J., & Erbug, C. (2015). Promoting sustainability through behavior change: A review. Design Studies, 41, 183-204.

Skinner, B. F. (1957). The experimental analysis of behavior. American scientist, 45(4), 343-371.
